# Data Collection Pipeline Readme

## Milestone 1
### Decide which website to collect data from
My major interests are magic the gathering, video games, brazilian jiu-jitsu, whisky, biology. From this selection I looked at possibilities to collect valuable data that may be of interest to an industry. Some options were:
1. Cardmarket.com - buy and selling of magic cards with prices and various card versions
2. tracker.gg - video game stats tracker
3. beltchecker.com - check BJJ players and their achieved belts
4. rcsb.org/ - Protein Data bank
5. whiskyexchange.com - spirits database with flavour profile

In the end I went with whiskeyexchange as the website seemed well set up, would use a webscraper not an API, would be within my level of ability to analyze and create insights with. 

I studied the content on selenium, APIs & requests, 

## Milestone 2
### Prototype finding the individual page for entry

While for this project I specifically looked at Scotch single malt whisky, I have written the code to be generic for all spirits on the site. I wanted to make sure my scraper was open-ended enough that I could use it for different products on the site without changing the code. 

I started with this page: 'https://www.thewhiskyexchange.com/brands/scotchwhisky/40/single-malt-scotch-whisky'.

This page has an A-Z of various brands/distilleries, which when opened, have a page of the products by that brand/distillery. I felt this was a useful layout as it had the products nested within the brands, which I could implement as folders/products/data later.

I wrote Scraper.init, Scraper.accept_cookies and Scraper.get_url_list to start the webdriver, accept cookies and start pulling all the brand/distillery urls out of the page as the 'primary' url list.

## Milestone 3
### Retrieve data from details page

As part of this milestone I created a method called get_spirit_profile() which took the arguments of: an instance of a spirit dataclass and the url to be scraped for the attributes.

I then used webdriver.find_element(By.XPATH, <tag name>) to find all the elements from the spirit profile page that I wanted to collect. This included:

name (string): the full name name of the spirit product, including the brand/distillery name.            
brand_name (string): the brand/distillery name, taken as the first word from the name. 
subname (string): some spirits had a subtitle name, eg. Aberlour 12 year old, the golden dram.
product_id (string): taken from the url, believed to be the site's product id eg. from /p/40978/aberfeldy-12-year-old-the-golden-dram, 40978
product_uuid (string): each spirit product has a universally unique ID generated by the UUID python package. 
contents_liquid_volume (string): volume of the bottle
alcohol_by_volume (string): alcohol percentage of the spirit
price (float): price of the bottle(s) captured by removing the '£' from a price string and converting to float
description (string): text description of the product
facts (dict): a fact sheet of the spirit product in dictionary format as different products have different facts
flavour_style (dict): Takes the body, richness, smoke and sweetness ratings as scores out of 5 in dictionary format
flavour_character (list): A list of the flavours of the spirit, eg. nutmeg, apple, melon, honey 

I stored these attributes to the instance of the spirit dataclass passed in. This method allowed me to keep the spirit dataclass separated from the Scraper methods.



i learned how to use Path to create a folder (mkdir) in python

i learned how to adjust the chrome driver options to use a beta version due to the 103 update breaking selenium. 

I learned how to use json.dump and json.loads to convert files to json and back. 

I learned how to use the UUID package to create universal unique id numbers.

I learned about how to better structure my code using the OOP paradigm. I learned how to correctly put comments and docstring information. 